RFD 0: Request For Discussion (#66)
hocus-dev/hocus: rfd/0000-rfds.md

---
authors: Grzegorz Uriasz (gorbak25@gmail.com)
state: living-document
---

# RFD 0 - Request For Discussion

## What

Request For Discussion (RFD) is a design document format for non-trivial
technical changes. It's also a process by which these documents are proposed, discussed, approved and tracked.

## Why

To invite anyone to propose new Hocus features, comment on existing design decisions and see what's upcoming. RFDs apply to major high level decisions, features, directions, and never to bugfixes, small changes, and refactors.

> Hocus as an **alpha software** allows RFDs to be highly lax to not slow down our 2 person team while opening the doors to any external feedback and accept proposals from the community. Expect some RFDs to be 2-3 sentences long at this stage.
> 
> External Contributors aiming to introduce major changes or features are always required to open or amend an RFD before their contribution might get accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hocus is still in **alpha** stage, so we keep RFDs flexible and simple to avoid slowing down our two-person team and to encourage external input and proposals from the community. Some RFDs may be very brief at this point.

External contributors who want to make significant changes or add new features must always open or update an RFD before their contribution can be accepted.
```

- approvals are recorded and enforced

This template takes heavy inspiration from https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/rfd/0000-rfds.md which was inspired by https://oxide.computer/blog/rfd-1-requests-for-discussion/ which was made on the basis of https://www.ietf.org/standards/rfcs/

## Details

Each RFD is stored in a markdown file under
https://github.com/hocus-dev/hocus/tree/master/rfd and has a unique
number.

### structure

Each RFD consists of:

1. a header containing author name(s) and [state](#states)
1. title in the format `RFD $NUMBER - $TITLE`
1. the `What` section - 1-3 sentence summary of what this RFD is about
1. the `Why` section - 1-3 sentences(or paragraphs) describing motivation for the RFD
1. the `Details` section - short description of the proposal, including
   APIs, UI design, migrations or any other relevant information. At the current project stage the details section might not cover every detail. Details might get amended.

**Use this RFD as an example/template for your own RFDs.**

### process

Here's the process from an RFD idea in your head to a working implementation in the main Hocus branch.

> 1. pick the RFD number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. pick an RFD number
```
